Docs: Add store api checkout tutorial and new tutorials section to Block Development docs (#59126)
woocommerce/woocommerce: docs/block-development/tutorials/integrating-protection-checkout-block.md

- The `data-sitekey` attribute stores your CAPTCHA configuration, but this may be different for your plugin
- We append our protection element after the original block content.

## Step 2: Client-Side Integration

Once your protection element is rendered, you need to integrate it with the checkout data store to capture the validation token and pass it to the server.

### Using the Checkout Data Store

The checkout block uses a data store to manage state. You can use the `setExtensionData` method to pass your protection token to the server.

```js
/* Woo Checkout Block */
if ( wp && wp.data ) {
  var unsubscribe = wp.data.subscribe( function () {
    const turnstileItem = document.querySelector(".my-captcha-element");

    if ( turnstile && turnstileItem ) {
      turnstile.render( turnstileItem, {
        sitekey: turnstileItem.dataset.sitekey,
        callback: function( data ) {
          wp.data
            .dispatch("wc/store/checkout")
            .setExtensionData("plugin-namespace-turnstile", {
              token: data,
            });
        },
      });

      unsubscribe();
    }
  }, "wc/store/cart" );
}

> ```

Reviewer: Thank you! I think the tutorial is a bit lacking the critical aspect of loading cloudflare script or being explicit about it missing, otherwise this should be wrapped in a `DOMContentLoaded` event

    }

    // Skip if this is not the checkout endpoint.
    if ( ! preg_match( '#/wc/store(?:/v\d+)?/checkout#', $GLOBALS['wp']->query_vars['rest_route'] ) ) {
        return $result;
    }

    // get request body
    $request_body = json_decode( \WP_REST_Server::get_raw_data(), true );

    if ( isset( $request_body['payment_method'] ) ) {
        $chosen_payment_method = sanitize_text_field(  $request_body['payment_method'] );

        // Provide ability to short circuit the check to allow express payments or hosted checkouts to bypass the check.
        $selected_payment_methods = apply_filters(  'plugin_payment_methods_to_skip', array('woocommerce_payments' ) );
        if( is_array( $selected_payment_methods ) ) {
            if ( in_array( $chosen_payment_method, $selected_payment_methods, true ) ) {
                return $result;
            }
        }
    }

    $extensions = $request_body['extensions'];
    if ( empty( $extensions ) || ! isset( $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile'] ) ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'challenge_failed', 'Captcha challenge failed' );
    }
    $token = sanitize_text_field( $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile']['token'] );

>     $check = my_token_check_function( $token );

Reviewer: Should probably be explicit about this function needing to be implemented by the plugin.

```php
add_filter(
    'render_block_woocommerce/checkout-actions-block',
    function( $block_content ) {
        ob_start();
        ?>
        <div class="my-captcha-element" data-sitekey="<?php echo esc_attr( get_option( 'plugin_captcha_sitekey' ) ); ?>">
        </div>
        <?php
        echo $block_content;
        $block_content = ob_get_contents();
        ob_end_clean();
        return $block_content;
    },
    999,
    1
);
```

**Key points about this code:**

- The filter targets `woocommerce/checkout-actions-block` which is the block containing the place order button
- We use a priority of `999` to ensure our content is added after other modifications
- The `data-sitekey` attribute stores your CAPTCHA configuration, but this may be different for your plugin
- We append our protection element after the original block content.

## Step 2: Client-Side Integration

Once your protection element is rendered, you need to integrate it with the checkout data store to capture the validation token and pass it to the server.

### Using the Checkout Data Store

> The checkout block uses a data store to manage state. You can use the `__internalSetExtensionData` method to pass your protection token to the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The checkout block uses a data store to manage state. You can use the `setExtensionData` method to pass your protection token to the server.
```

```js
/* Woo Checkout Block */
if ( wp && wp.data ) {
  var unsubscribe = wp.data.subscribe( function () {
    const turnstileItem = document.querySelector(".my-captcha-element");

    if ( turnstile && turnstileItem ) {
      turnstile.render( turnstileItem, {
        sitekey: turnstileItem.dataset.sitekey,
        callback: function( data ) {
          wp.data
            .dispatch("wc/store/checkout")

>             .__internalSetExtensionData("plugin-namespace-turnstile", {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The checkout block uses a data store to manage state. You can use the `setExtensionData` method to pass your protection token to the server.

```js
/* Woo Checkout Block */
if ( wp && wp.data ) {
  var unsubscribe = wp.data.subscribe( function () {
    const turnstileItem = document.querySelector(".my-captcha-element");

    if ( turnstile && turnstileItem ) {
      turnstile.render( turnstileItem, {
        sitekey: turnstileItem.dataset.sitekey,
        callback: function( data ) {
          wp.data
            .dispatch("wc/store/checkout")
            .setExtensionData("plugin-namespace-turnstile", {
```

              token: data,
            });
        },
      });

      unsubscribe();
    }
  }, "wc/store/cart" );
}
```

**Key points about this JavaScript:**

- We subscribe to the cart data store to detect when the checkout is ready
- The `turnstile.render()` method initializes your CAPTCHA (replace with your specific implementation)

> - `__internalSetExtensionData()` stores the token in the checkout data store

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `setExtensionData()` stores the token in the checkout data store
```

            if ( in_array( $chosen_payment_method, $selected_payment_methods, true ) ) {
                return $result;
            }
        }
    }

    $extensions = $request_body['extensions'];
    if ( empty( $extensions ) || ! isset( $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile'] ) ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'challenge_failed', 'Captcha challenge failed' );
    }
    $token = sanitize_text_field( $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile']['token'] );
    $check = my_token_check_function( $token );
    $success = $check['success'];

    if( $success !== true ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'challenge_failed', 'Captcha challenge failed' );
    }

    return $result;
}
```

**Key points about server-side validation:**

- We check for POST requests to the checkout endpoint specifically
- The protection token is accessed via `$request_body['extensions']['your-namespace']`
- Always return the `$result` parameter to avoid interfering with other authentication checks
- Return a `WP_Error` object if validation fails
- Consider allowing certain payment methods to bypass protection (e.g., express payments)

## Important Notes

### Internal Method Usage

> The example above uses `__internalSetExtensionData`, which is currently an internal method. While this method is stable, we will notify developers if anything around it changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example above uses `setExtensionData`, which is currently an internal method. While this method is stable, we will notify developers if anything around it changes.
```

- The `data-sitekey` attribute stores your CAPTCHA configuration, but this may be different for your plugin
- We append our protection element after the original block content.

## Step 2: Client-Side Integration

Once your protection element is rendered, you need to integrate it with the checkout data store to capture the validation token and pass it to the server.

### Using the Checkout Data Store

The checkout block uses a data store to manage state. You can use the `__internalSetExtensionData` method to pass your protection token to the server.

```js
/* Woo Checkout Block */
if ( wp && wp.data ) {
  var unsubscribe = wp.data.subscribe( function () {
    const turnstileItem = document.querySelector(".my-captcha-element");

    if ( turnstile && turnstileItem ) {
      turnstile.render( turnstileItem, {
        sitekey: turnstileItem.dataset.sitekey,
        callback: function( data ) {
          wp.data
            .dispatch("wc/store/checkout")
            .__internalSetExtensionData("plugin-namespace-turnstile", {
              token: data,
            });
        },
      });

      unsubscribe();
    }
  }, "wc/store/cart" );

> }

Reviewer 2: @coderabbitai - according to https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-data/#subscribe

`subscribe` takes 2 parameters:

> Parameters
> 
> listener Function: Callback function.
> storeNameOrDescriptor string|StoreDescriptor?: Optional store name.

> Given a listener function, the function will be called any time the state value of one of the registered stores has changed. If you specify the optional storeNameOrDescriptor parameter, the listener function will be called only on updates on that one specific registered store.
>
> This function returns an unsubscribe function used to stop the subscription.

- `__internalSetExtensionData()` stores the token in the checkout data store
- The namespace should be unique to your plugin (e.g., `my-plugin-turnstile`)

### Data Store Integration

For more information about the checkout data store and available methods, see the [Checkout Data Store documentation](https://github.com/woocommerce/woocommerce/blob/trunk/plugins/woocommerce/client/blocks/docs/third-party-developers/extensibility/data-store/checkout.md).

## Step 3: Server-Side Validation

The most critical step is validating the protection token on the server side. This should happen early in the authentication process to prevent any unauthorized checkout attempts.

### Using the core `rest_authentication_errors` filter

The [`rest_authentication_errors`](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/hooks/rest_authentication_errors/) filter is the ideal place to validate your protection token because it runs before any checkout processing begins.

```php
add_filter( 'rest_authentication_errors', 'plugin_check_turnstile_token' );

function cfturnstile_store_api_checkout_check( $result ) {

>     // Skip if this is not a POST request.

Reviewer 2: @bacoords - I think the rabbit is right - do you want to update this, the committable suggestion seems fine.

    if ( ! preg_match( '#/wc/store(?:/v\d+)?/checkout#', $GLOBALS['wp']->query_vars['rest_route'] ) ) {
        return $result;
    }

    // get request body
    $request_body = json_decode( \WP_REST_Server::get_raw_data(), true );

    if ( isset( $request_body['payment_method'] ) ) {
        $chosen_payment_method = sanitize_text_field(  $request_body['payment_method'] );

        // Provide ability to short circuit the check to allow express payments or hosted checkouts to bypass the check.
        $selected_payment_methods = apply_filters(  'plugin_payment_methods_to_skip', array('woocommerce_payments' ) );
        if( is_array( $selected_payment_methods ) ) {
            if ( in_array( $chosen_payment_method, $selected_payment_methods, true ) ) {
                return $result;
            }
        }
    }

    $extensions = $request_body['extensions'];
    if ( empty( $extensions ) ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'challenge_failed', 'Captcha challenge failed' );
    }
    $value = $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile'];
    if ( empty( $value ) ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'challenge_failed', 'Captcha challenge failed' );
    }

>     $token = $value['token'];

Reviewer 2: @bacoords I think as this is for a tutorial, the main purpose is showing the APIs off, but the suggestions seems valid, if you're making changes anyway you may want to apply it.

>     $token = $value['token'];

Author: In a real world scenario, I'd test and sanitize all of those fields before accessing them, probably. I can update that accordingly.

        }
    }

    $extensions = $request_body['extensions'];
    if ( empty( $extensions ) || ! isset( $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile'] ) ) {
        return new WP_Error( 'challenge_failed', 'Captcha challenge failed' );
    }
    $token = sanitize_text_field( $extensions['plugin-namespace-turnstile']['token'] );

    /**

>      * Note: The function `my_token_check_function` would include custom
>      * logic implemented by your plugin to handle token validation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     * Note: The function `my_token_check_function` would be
     * implemented in your plugin to handle token validation.
```

I feel this comment is clearer.
